# Software-Design-Document
This is a software design document that was created for my client The Gaming Room.

The client for this project was The Gaming Room, a company that wanted to expand its Android based game Draw It Or Lose it, into a web-based multiplayer application that can be accessed across multiple different platforms. The software application needed to suppprt multiple teams and players, enforce the use of unique game and team names and ensure that only one instance of the game could exist in memory at a time. One area that I believed I did particularly well in developing the software design document was my ability to translate and connect the client's requirements to technical solutions. I recommended using Linux as the operating system, using MySQL for data storage and management and discussed how the implementation of the singleton pattern would ensure that only one instance of the game exists in memory at a time. To further connect my client's requirements and the techincal solutions, I also included a UML diagram along with a summary to describe how the classes interact so my design will be easer uderstood by both the client and developers.

Working through the software design document while developing the code for the gaming application was very helpful as it helped me to first plan the relationships between the classes, identify design constrants and select the most appropriate technologies for the development of the application. I was also able to identify potential challenges and ensure my application architecture meets the client's requirements which helped to reduce development errors. If I could choose one part of my software design document to revise, i would choose to expand on the Security recommendations by providing more specific implementation details such as using multi-factor authentication, enorced unique password requirements (such as a specific password length minimumm and the inclusion of a special character) and a secure API communication. 

I interpreted the user's nees by reviewing the client's requirements and tranlsating them into specific software features. I implemented some of these software features such as uique identifiers and name validation which will prevent the duplication of games and teams, incorporate security features such as authentication and recommending using scalable platforms for future expansions. Considering the user's needs when designing is essential to improve application functionality, usability and solve real problems and concerns. I approached designing software by first reviewing the client's requirements to select the most appropriate object-oriented design patterns that best suites the client's needs. I also used the UML modeling as a way to aid in the visualization of the relationships between the classes. In future projects, I would continue to use the same approach but I will incorporate user feedback, early testing ans iterative design reviews to help identify issues sooner and develop a better software that meets the client's expectations and goals. 
